---
layout: post
title: You
subtitle: Short Story by Chase Lawson
cover-img: portfolio_images/youstory.jpg
share-img: portfolio_images/youstory.jpg
tags: [Short Story, Final Project]
author: Chase Lawson
---
## You

I never wanted to lose *you*.

***

How did I end up here on a Wednesday night? Yes, I, Harlowe, sit on my balcony in my favorite egg chair as I like to call it when it's just seating that happens to be oval-shaped. Looking out at the skyline filled with high-rise buildings taking in all the high-pitched sounds from the city known to never shut up and go to sleep. Here on the table beside me I’m debating the poison to take for the night to remove all my feelings and emotions, pretty pathetic yeah I know. The tequila shot and joint stare right back at me. Girl, what are you doing? What do you want? I can't help but question despite already knowing the answer. It's the answer my soul always yearned for. It all got too deep too fast. My thoughts as a young woman still manage to consume all of me. 

***

That morning I stood under the shower head. Hot water was flowing down my body. It burns but it’s tolerable. The steam that filled the bathroom reminded me of my mind. So full and filled all the time. Escaping from the bathroom getting dressed felt so mechanical like my body was there but I wasn’t. Out of my peripheral vision I saw the sleeve of a hoodie, my new favorite hoodie. I see it now as a parting gift. There hanging slightly out my closet is the hoodie the one You gave me. I slipped it on with a pair of leggings stepping in front of the mirror and closing my eyes. I slowly felt your arms wrap me in an embrace, the one that made me feel so comfortable. Reality hurt as I stared back at myself without You there. Denial hurts even worse and it’s a shame because I just want to scream “I miss You” till my vocal cords snap. 

But to avoid that from happening I’d spent my day in the place that brings me peace doing what I love most, ice skating. I took my time lacing my skates intricately placing the laces through each hole. I wanted to stay here for as long as possible in hopes of emptying my mind and freeing myself from my thoughts. I watched my breath appear in front of me standing in the middle of the cold rink. With each glide my skates made permanent grooves in the smooth ice. I came here to think I always do yet twenty-four laps later I’m still thinking about You. So I decided to leave and start walking home. It gave me more time which led to the raw unfolding of everything that was bottled up suffocating within me. 

Standing at the corner waiting for the light, the honk of a car is what made me stop to look. I saw his car at the traffic light, a 2019 BMW 3 series. Yes I memorized his car. I was so memorized with him. I remember our first date. I was so excited. Boy #1 was full of surprises. He kept me on my toes for sure. We always had on and off days, weeks too. I remember the first full week he went without speaking to me. But even still once he wanted to see me my heart would skip a beat. He took me to a local fair. It was the one day he was nicest to me. The kiss we shared at the top of the ferris wheel stopped the world around me. He made me feel so wanted I’ll never forget that day. We spent all night in his car, we talked, we ate funnel cake, we watched the stars from the rooftop of his car. That was the first and last time I saw him unfortunately. We were just friends or just talking or just a situationship in his eyes yet to me we were dating for seven  months. It wasn’t all fun and games for me as much as it was for him. Texts and phone calls were all I ever got from him before that day. Hence my excitement when we actually met in person for the first time. Sure it sounded fun until he never mentioned date two or saw me again. Shortly after our calls got shorter and arguments got longer. The day he ended it all is a day I’ll never forget. It left little room for growth yet still I tried and tried and fought for him with all my might. It sucked feeling like a nuisance to Boy #1. I remember our last day so vividly his words stabbed me. “Why would I respond to you Harlowe, all you say is nonsense that's why I ignore you” he said. And so with that, I just left. 

I got to ninety-fourth street in no time. At the corner of this block is the building my sister brought me to. Three hundred thirty three I’ll never forget the angel numbers on the outside of the building. It was a party she brought me to, happy birthday to boy #2. That day I was able to make a friend. Being single was for me. I knew that and he knew that too. Three guys and four girls were in our friend group for as long as I’d known and that day was the first time meeting the new guy. He was around so often and always made me laugh. It was nice to have a friend. Of course I grew a little baby crush on him. I knew it went too far when I had to constantly remind myself he was my friend in my head. Oh boy #2 we never had a date, we only had time when we hung out as a group. It always bothered me but regardless of my foolishness no one saw him like I did. No one will understand we had our quiet friendship that blossomed into a silent love. After the day he got my number from the group chat and texted me we talked nonstop. The long nights on the phone, the deep conversations, the secret hand holding, the infamous wink he always gave me. I was there for him and he was always there for me. Our friends even predicted him to be my forever. But it’s always good until it’s not. He started disappearing, never coming to hang out with our friend group anymore, only texting me but responding three hours late. It was the same thing, different boy all over again in a different form but the same pattern. I realized I was his almost not his one, I was still only his friend after a whole year of devoting myself to him and only him. Our year of friendship and love down the drain all in one day. His last words to me drove the knife the first boy struck even further into me. “Harlowe, I have a girlfriend, but..” he said. He never got to finish his sentence because I did what I know best, I left. For the rest of the way, all I seemed to remember was fighting through all this pain. 

***

Arriving home I thought of all the work I put into healing, building up my walls to the heights of the Great Wall of China. Every ending of a story tends to only be the beginning. So I started a chapter with just me, myself and I. I felt the need to find myself again after feeling nothing but defeat and disappointment. I felt as if I was no longer in control of my life; neither my mind nor my heart was working properly anymore. I felt empty, I felt nothing. I was drowning but I wanted to learn to swim. So I changed everything or at least I tried. There’s a famous saying that hair holds memories, so I dyed mine orange. I stopped binge watching Love is Blind on Friday and Saturday nights and got dolled up to grab a drink with my close friends. Those nights I discovered I wasn't like my friends who would have five guys rather than just one. I started watching sermons on Sunday mornings and reading books on my balcony with a caramel macchiato. After work instead of going straight home I’d stop at Whole Foods to get a bouquet of tulips for the centerpiece of my dining room table. I would create a list of all the qualities I was looking for creating standards I would never let anyone ever break. I took it as far as getting a gym membership and actually going three times a week. Self reflection was my enemy and my friend. It revealed to me all the wrong turns and guided me with lessons to begin making the right ones. I stayed to myself, I reinvented myself, and I grew as a person changing my mindset and my perspective on this troublesome affair called love. I needed this chapter for myself. I started to feel peace knowing that I was gaining love for myself without the help of a boy. I enjoyed and bathed in the selfishness of it. Self love is a special kind of love. It's empowering. So for two years, I was in love with myself. But this phase of my life is where I met You, the phase in which I was content with being alone with just myself. 

“ “Your soulmate will be the stranger you recognize.” — r.h. Sin.” I saved this quote from scrolling through Pinterest (the best app made by man-kind).

Until I met You this quote I never understood. It never registered in my mind but it fits perfectly. It explains the pull, the sparks, the reason why it seemed so familiar like I knew You without ever truly meeting You. It was indescribable the amount of feeling that came pouring through me; it was like Pandora's box suddenly opening. I saw You from on the second level of the gym looking down at the basketball court. I was in awe of the sponged black hair, the most perfect jawline, full lips dressed in a white tank top showing the full sleeve of tattoos on both arms I wanted to know the meaning behind and basketball shorts. You looked up at me for a split second. I was taken aback by your beauty even from afar and it hit me like a ton of bricks. You were not just handsome; You were beautiful. And in a blink your eyes left mine but You were stuck in mine. I was drawn to You. I've never been so inclined to know someone. I immediately felt the need for You to be in my life. Who are You? When I finally gave myself a five minute pep talk and grew some balls I introduced myself. 

From there unbeknownst to me the flame put out inside me would ignite again it scared me and still does. My thoughts bring me to our first date where I found myself wanting to know everything although there's only so much a person will tell about themselves during the initial meeting. Even then we still made matching bracelets with each other's names on them and wore them. With that right there pieces of my most precious wall started to crumble. I can’t possibly forget the time we both decided to bake cinnamon rolls knowing we can't bake but simply doing it for the company, for the thrill, and ending the night eating undercooked cinnamon rolls. Or the times we’ve laid inside just watching Designated Survivor, our Netflix show. Days became weeks, and weeks became a month of just me and You. I became so consumed in this unknown. 

I was finally getting everything boy #1 and boy #2 could never live up to. We had a real connection, a true bond, and in our time together You became my person. I learned to value myself and I knew You respected that, I saw it in the way You appreciated and cared for me. I was so used to leaving and for once I didn't want to. I was willing to be trapped in our bubble forever. But no bubble is strong enough to resist the burdensome purse of pain I carry. The trauma still manages to find a way to linger so when our talks got shorter, I got worried. When You stopped coming over as much during the week and on weekends, I got scared. When I felt like I was losing you, those feelings I tried so hard to bury in the past started bubbling up in my throat. You would try your hardest. You came around whenever you could but the reality was we started to have less and less time. You provided me with a sharp reminder I still had a knife stuck within me and when your fingers touched the handle it was like the blade managed to sharpen itself from within me and I started to grab the bricks to build up my wall again. But truly I did not want to build it, I did not want to revert to old ways and leave. I actually wanted to try this time and stay. I never wanted to completely close myself off to you. But You getting close to the knife hurt more than ever, even more than the first time I initially felt it. I let the past repeat itself. I simply told You to leave me alone and You did. In reinventing myself I invented a new form of self-sabotage to keep this knife from pushing further into me. 

***

That’s how I ended up here on my third night this week out here on my balcony. Replaying all the memories that filled my lungs with peace and happiness. Even with You gone, somehow You remain here with me. Looking within I realize You reached for the knife in hopes to pull it out of me to set me free. Finally, I found the wrecking ball to crush my walls down and let it slip through my fingers. Why? Because of fear it consumed me and led to the not-so-happily ever after I never wanted us to encounter. Sitting criss-cross applesauce I decided no poison for tonight. My thoughts did enough of that for me today yet looking out to the sky I hope for the opportunity to continue to grow with You, I have faith in our story. With the love I have for myself I know I deserve to be happy and share that love with someone else and I know it's You. Reaching for my phone I realize I need to do this for me. Because I want to take this risk with You so badly. I found your contact. I press the call button and I listen to the constant ring, shit here it goes. 

The ringing increases– three rings, ten seconds until I hear “Hi Harlowe,” Micheal said. 

“Hi you,” I said back. Girl say how you feel, get it all out on the table, hold nothing back. 

“How are you?” we say in unison.

“I’m doing pretty good, I just got off work” he said. 

“I’m doing alright, could be better, do you have some time to talk? ” I said. 

“Of course, is everything okay?”

“No, I miss you.” It's a relief to finally admit it. 

Squeezing my eyes shut, I let it all out. 

“I went into self sabotage mode last week. It really was not my intention to push you away. I didn’t actually want you to go, I wanted you to stay. 

I started to fidget, pulling on each of my fingers as I spoke. “You started to become my person, I would look forward to our times together. I was so happy making memories with you. I’m still working on me but I realized after we sort of cut things off I really want to do so beside you. I really grew to care about you. You showed me an experience different from any I've had before. Micheal you showed me something so special without even knowing it so I’d like to work towards continuing that if you'd be open to it. So yeah that is why I called you.” I finished. 

“I'm glad you did. I've been waiting to hear this from you. I missed you more Harlowe, I can't believe you waited all week. Are you busy tonight? I can stop by.” he said.

“I'm not so come, I'd really like to see you.” 

I leave the balcony heading inside with you on the phone grinning from ear to ear with the brightest smile.