---
layout: post
title: Nicole Hannah-Jones Martin Luther King, Jr. Convocation 
subtitle: Reflection Piece by Chase Lawson
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [Assignment, Event Reflection]
author: Chase Lawson
---
## Reflection: Nicole Hannah-Jones Martin Luther King, Jr. Convocation 

Nicole Hannah-Jones, an author, journalist, historian, and activist, joined Loyola University Maryland's annual “Martin Luther King, Jr. Convocation” on Monday, January 27, 2025. A conversation was held, guided by two Loyola professors and Nicole Hannah-Jones herself. Nicole Hannah-Jones, a MacArthur Fellowship and Pulitzer Award-winning author, is also a two-time New York Times Best Seller with “The 1619 Project” and her children’s book “Born on the Water”. “The 1619 Project” is also now being turned into a documentary on Hulu, as it opened the eyes of so many people who were unaware of the true nature and roots of Black history, as the narrative has changed over the course of decades. Nicole Hannah-Jones has also founded a school in her hometown and is very active within her historical project and contributions to the historical and Black community as a whole, serving as the Chair of Race and Journalism at Howard University. I can truly say this was one of the most powerful, authentic, and raw conversations I've ever witnessed, and I'm grateful for the privilege and opportunity to attend this event and truly listen, letting the words truly resonate. 

During this conversation, Nicole Hannah-Jones brought everyone from oblivion to reality in the most realistic and well-needed way considering the circumstances politically our nation and specifically minorities, especially people of color, are facing. Granted, Loyola was excited to research its slavery implications, which had deep connections and pulled from the 1619 project and touched upon this matter yet it was only discussed briefly as Nicole Hannah-Jones uses her book to make history present in today, connecting then and now, allowing her audience to truly sit with what is unraveling in our nation in present time. The most interesting thing Hannah-Jones brought up was memory work. Hannah-Jones stated Memory is controlled by power, which is true when we ask ourselves, How do we remember ourselves as a nation?

In the question she brings to light noting the reparation of acknowledgement to black history is the start but the real action lies within the financial reparation that remains missing in black history. It may seem as if none of this matters because those in control of the narrative determine which histories are acknowledged and which are buried. America has often studied its past without taking real action, people included study the history yet take no real action to mend it. Which is why as a nation we find ourselves in the predicament of continuing to allow economic systems rooted in slavery to continue to drawbrack and exploit minority communities. Rather than looking at slavery from a racist standpoint and a more economic one Hannah-Jones made the point that in order to address the unparalleled suffering disproportionately endured by Black Americans it demands reparations, both financial and institutionally. Now in these uncharted and unprecedented times we need to build some resistance because complying allows people power to get away with it allowing history to repeat itself. We need to change the narrative from black regression and let the narrative define the terms. Nicole Hannah-Jones has told her audience during this event the connection and now in order to Save our nation and people of color who were overlooked for centuries large scale reparation is needed. 

Making known that the reality that black people will possibly face in the near future will be to protect the civil right now being dismantled now having their human rights at risk once again like it once was. Hannah-Jones said “You take part in the good and bad of a country when you become a part of it” and for that it sent the clear message rather than give attention to the division, we need to see ourselves as a whole and fight for the common good for all of our nation. Nicole Hannah-Jones touched me most in her conversation, stating although it may not feel like much, and your voice may seem small to start at a small institution and make change and continue from there to make change. This event provided more introspect and a different historical perspective on Black history, and as a young Black woman, it was insightful to hear and helpful for my actions for change.